## Indications
Cardicil is indicated for the management of hypertension for end-organ protection. It is reported to be useful in elderly patients and in those with diabetes and albuminuria. Cardicil has been increasingly used in patients with chronic kidney diseaseHypertension is the term used to... Read moreCardicil is indicated for the management of hypertension for end-organ protection. It is reported to be useful in elderly patients and in those with diabetes and albuminuria. Cardicil has been increasingly used in patients with chronic kidney diseaseHypertension is the term used to describe the presence of high blood pressure. The blood pressure is generated by the force of the blood pumped from the heart against the blood vessels. Thus hypertension is caused when there is too much pressure on the blood vessels and this effect can damage the blood vessel.

## Pharmacology
Cilnidipine is a dihydropyridine calcium-channel blocker. Cilnidipine binds to the dihydropy-ridine binding sites of the L-type voltage dependent calcium channel and inhibits Ca 2+ influx across the cell membranes of vascular smooth muscle cells via this channel, consequently vascular smooth muscle is relaxed, causing vasodilation. Cilnidipine inhibits Ca 2+ influx via N-type voltage dependent calcium channels in the sympathetic nerve cell membrane. The inhibition of Ca 2+ influx via N-type voltage dependent calcium channel was observed over a similar range of drug concentrations to those inhibiting L-type voltage dependent Ca 2+ channels. Consequently, release of norepinephrine from sympathetic nerve terminals would be inhibited. Cilnidipine is considered to suppress the reflex increase in heart rate after blood pressure reduction.

## Dosage & Administration
Adults : 5-10 mg once daily after breakfast. Maximum dose: 20 mg once daily. 

Pediatric use : The safety of Cilnidipine in pediatric patients has not been established. 

Elderly use : Since the elderly may be more susceptible to hypotension, therapy should be initiated with the lowest possible dose (5 mg).

## Interaction
Other anti-hypertensive, antipsychotics that cause hypotension, quinidine, carbamazepine, phenytoin, rifampicin, cimetidine, erythromycin.

## Contraindications
Cilnidipine is contraindicated in patients with known sensitivity to Cilnidipine or any of the excipients or patients having cardiogenic shock, recent MI or acute unstable angina and severe aortic stenosis.

## Side Effects
The most common side effects of Cardicil are: Dizziness; flushing; headache; hypotension; peripheral oedema; palpitations; GI disturbances; increased micturition frequency; lethargy; eye pain; depression.

## Pregnancy & Lactation
Cilnidipine should not be administered in pregnant woman or woman having possibilities of being pregnant. It is also advisable to avoid the administration of Cilnidipine to nursing mothers. However, if the administration is indispensable, the patient should be instructed to discontinue lactation.

## Precautions & Warnings
Cardicil should be administered with care in the following patients: patients with serious hepatic dysfunction, patients with a history of serious adverse reactions to calcium antagonists. During the discontinuation, the dosage should be gradually decreased under close observation.

## Therapeutic Class
Calcium-channel blockers

## Storage Conditions
Store below 30°C, protected from light and moisture. Keep away from reach out of the children.