## Indications
SAUGELLA ATTIVAis a feminine intimate hygiene cleanser with acidic pH (3.5) containing Thyme extract (Thymus vulgaris), a natural antibacterial that helps protect in moments at risk. Thymus vulgaris (thyme) extract does not act on lactobacilli, which together with pH 3.5 are essential... Read moreSAUGELLA ATTIVAis a feminine intimate hygiene cleanser with acidic pH (3.5) containing Thyme extract (Thymus vulgaris), a natural antibacterial that helps protect in moments at risk. Thymus vulgaris (thyme) extract does not act on lactobacilli, which together with pH 3.5 are essential to maintain the physiological conditions of the vulvar area. It is formulated to help maintain and regain physiological vulvovaginal ecosystem. It helps to relieve intimate discomfort in women at risk of infection or with ongoing infection.SAUGELLA ATTIVA is useful-During infectionsRecurrent infectionsPregnancy and postpartumDuring menstrual periodSituations at risk (public toilet, gym, swimming pool, beach)Post-surgeryCo-adjuvant with topical vaginal treatmentSAUGELLA ATTIVA is supported by numerous clinical studies that attest to its action and its safety of use. It has been used for years in the gynecology and obstetrics departments of the main Italian hospitals.SAUGELLA HYDRASERUMis a feminine intimate hygiene cleanser with acidic pH (4.5) containing marigold & sage extract, oat milk & maltodextrin with moisturizing and restorative power. SAUGELLA HYDRASERUM respects the hydrolipidic film of the skin maintaining the equilibrium of the vulvar area in childbearing age and in menopause. Its special formula is also suitable for daily washing of the body, even in the case of sensitive skin.SAUGELLA HYDRASERUM is useful-For women prone to vulvovaginal drynessDuring menopauseUsing oral contraceptiveSensitivity to normal cleanserSAUGELLA HYDRASERUM is supported by numerous clinical studies that attest to its action and its safety of use. It has been used for years in the gynecology and obstetrics departments of the main Italian hospitals.SAUGELLA DERMOLIQUIDOis a feminine intimate hygiene cleanser for women of childbearing age with acidic pH (3.5) containing Sage extract, which has a refreshing and invigorating action, ensuring daily well-being. It also has an anti-odor action.SAUGELLA DERMOLIQUIDO is useful-During the fertile ageFor daily intimate hygieneSAUGELLA DERMOLIQUIDO is supported by numerous clinical studies that attest to its action and its safety of use. It has been used for years in the gynecology and obstetrics departments of the main Italian hospitals.

## Dosage & Administration
SAUGELLA ATTIVA : Shake the bottle before use. Take 1-2 drops in your hand, apply in your intimate area and rinse with water. Use as a normal cleanser once or twice a day. Due to its characteristics, it can also be used for body cleansing. If you have any further questions on the use of this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 

SAUGELLA HYDRASERUM : Shake the bottle before use. Take 1-2 drops in your hand, apply in your intimate area and rinse with water. Use as a normal cleanser once or twice a day. Due to its characteristics, it can also be used for body cleansing. If you have any further questions on the use of this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 

SAUGELLA DERMOLIQUIDO : Shake the bottle before use. Take 1-2 drops in your hand, apply in your intimate area and rinse with water. Use as a normal cleanser once or twice a day. Due to its characteristics, it can also be used for body cleansing. If you have any further questions on the use of this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist.

## Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients.

## Therapeutic Class
Miscellaneous topical agents

## Storage Conditions
Keep below 30°C temperature, away from light & moisture. Keep out of the reach of children.